.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 10/13/10               \" DATE 
.Dt Mandoline 1      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm Mandoline
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line. 
.\" .Nm Other_name_for_same_program(),
.\" .Nm Yet another name for the same program.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd STL file slicer to generate gcode files for 3D FDM printing.
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl c                 \" [-c]
.Op Fl d Ar PREFIX       \" [-d PREFIX] 
.Op Fl f Ar FLOAT        \" [-f FLOAT] 
.Op Fl F Ar FLOAT        \" [-F FLOAT] 
.Op Fl i Ar FLOAT        \" [-i FLOAT] 
.Op Fl l Ar FLOAT        \" [-l FLOAT] 
.Op Fl m Ar STRING       \" [-m STRING] 
.Op Fl o Ar FILENAME     \" [-o FILENAME] 
.Op Fl p Ar INT          \" [-p INT] 
.Op Fl r Ar FLOAT        \" [-r FLOAT] 
.Op Fl s Ar FLOAT        \" [-s FLOAT] 
.Op Fl z Ar FLOAT        \" [-z path] 
.Ar FILE                 \" [file]
.\" .Op Ar                   \" [file ...]
.\" .Ar arg0                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.\" arg2 ...                 \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is used to slice an STL file into the tool paths needed by
FDM type 3D printers like RepRap or MakerBot printers.
.\" Underlining is accomplished with the .Ar macro like this:
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\" A list of items with descriptions:
.\" .Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list 
.\" .It item a               \" Each item preceded by .It macro
.\" Description of item a
.\" .It item b
.\" Description of item b
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed 
.It Fl c                 \"-a flag as a list item
Turns off automatic centering and placing on platform of the model.
.It Fl d Ar PREFIX
Causes each slice layer to be dumped to an SVG file with the given prefix.
.It Fl f Ar FLOAT
Input filament diameter in millimeters.
.It Fl F Ar FLOAT
Input filament feedrate in millimeters per second.
.It Fl i Ar FLOAT
Infill density.  0.0 to 1.0.
.It Fl l Ar FLOAT
Slice layer thickness, in millimeters.  (0.25 to 0.4 recommended.)
.It Fl m Ar STRING
Extruded material type to get default settings for. (Usually ABS.)
.It Fl o Ar FILENAME
Name of file to write output to.  Usually goes to stdout.
.It Fl p Ar INT
Number of perimeter shells to create. (1 to 3 recommended.)
.It Fl r Ar FLOAT
Extrusion width over thickness ratio. (1.2 to 2.0 recommended.)
.It Fl s Ar FLOAT
Scale model by the given factor.
.It Fl z Ar FLOAT
Slice only the layer at the given Z level.  Useful with -d for debugging.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Pp
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENV_VAR_1" -indent \" ENV_VAR_1 is width of the string ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_1
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_1
.\" .It Ev ENV_VAR_2
.\" Description of ENV_VAR_2
.\" .El                      
.Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.Bl -tag -width "~/.mandoline/materials" -compact
.It Pa ~/.mandoline/defaults
The defaults for all the
.Nm
settings.
.It Pa ~/.mandoline/materials
Material specific settings for
.Nm .
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.Xr skeinforge.py 1 , 
.Xr ReplicatorG 1
.Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs 
Numerous.
Can't read ASCII STL files.
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner
